

===== PAGE 1 =====

Shourov Joarder
joardershourov60@gmail.com | shourovj | shourovj | shourovj | shourovj
Bangladesh
Feb 2020 – March 2025
Education
Bangladesh University of Engineering & Technology (BUET) B.Sc. in Electrical and Electronic Engineering Major : Communication and Signal Processing (CSP)
CGPA: 3.88/4.00 (2nd in CSP major )
Relevant Courses: Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning | Digital Image Processing I | Computer Programming |
Linear Algebra | Probability and Statistics | Random Signals and Processes | Microprocessors and Embedded System | Digital
Signal Processing | Control Systems | Digital Electronics
Research Interests
Computer Vision | Multimodal LLM (VLMs) | Fairness and Safety of VLMs | Medical Imaging | Autonomous Vehicle
Publications
1. Shourov Joader, T. Talukder, K. Hasan, “Multi-Stage Residual-Aware Unsupervised Deep Learning Framework for
Consistent Ultrasound Strain Elastography,” Ready for Submission ( Preprint).
TLDR: Developed a multi-stage unsupervised spatio-temporal training framework for deep learning based ultrasound
strain imaging. This work has been validated for open source simulation, in vivo and our own clinical datasets.
2. S. Hasan, Shourov Joader, A. Nayem, H. Hasan, and S. A. Fattah, “Multilingual Voice-Controlled Smart Wheelchair
with Advanced Features,” Published at IEEE ECCE. (DOI: 10.1109/ECCE64574.2025.11013785)
TLDR: Developed a full scale wheelchair integrated with multilingual voice-control, collision detection and avoidance.
3. A. Dhar, D. Sikder, A. Shovon, and Shourov Joarder, “Skin Cancer Semantic Segmentation,” Published at IEEE ECCE.
(DOI: 10.1109/ECCE64574.2025.11013785).
TLDR: Unet-based Stacked Hourglass model converts cartesian image to polar image which is then fed to a TransUnet
model for estimating the semantic segmentation on skin cancer ISIC dataset.
Research Experiences
Undergraduate Thesis Student, EEE, BUET Supervisor : Dr. Kamrul Hasan
Multi-Stage Unsupervised Sequential Deep Learning Method for Ultrasound Strain Elastography
A medical imaging technique that determines the strain field by tracking displacements between pre- and post-compressed
ultrasound RF frames to detect tumors/lesions in the examined tissue by their strain.
• Developed a novel unsupervised sequential network consisting of a novel Contextual-Aware Feature Encoder, a novel
TriCrossAttention, a Cross-Attentive Sequential Decoder, and proposed a novel multi-stage framework MUSSE-Net
for Displacement Field and Strain Estimation in Strain Elastography, and implemented this in Pytorch.
• The proposed network beats state-of-the-art unsupervised ReUSENet, USENet(implemented) in terms of SNR, CNR,
NRMSE metrics, and also improves the strain image quality by enhancing the lesion SNR.
Ongoing Researches
• Unsupervised Reinforcement Learning for LLM Reasoning Feb 2026 - Present
This work focuses on using intrinsic reward signals to guide reasoning paths to mitigate mode collapse and improve
self-correction of LLMs for better decision-making agents with limited supervision.
• Autonomous Driving with Efficient VLM-based reasoning with LoRA Distilltion Github
The goal of this research is to develop a robust and explainable system for Autonomous Driving (AD) for real time
application. I have implemented a Trajectory and path planning for AD with explainability and reasoning. Initially, used
nexar-dashcam AD dataset and opensource VLM model (Qwen).
• Debiasing and Explainability of VLM July 2025 - Present
Mitigating demographic bias in VLM with explainability at inference time. Most debiasing methods use SFT, but our goal
is to develop an unsupervised Test-Time debiasing method to overcome the challenges of scarcity of data.
Mar 2024 - Mar 2025
1/2

===== PAGE 2 =====

June 2025 - Present
Apr 2025 - Present
2020, 2021, 2023
2021, 2022
2021, 2022
Work Experience
Adjunct Lecturer, Dept. of CSE, BRAC University. Courses Taught: Image Processing (CSE428), Digital Electronics (CSE350)
Machine Learning Engineer (Part-time), ACI Ltd. Ongoing Projects
• Medical-ExpertVLM with explainability and personalized assistance for doctors and medical students.
• Developing a robust OCR and annotation tool using state-of-the art Qwen2.5VL-VLM to extract medicine details and
bank cheque details from images of a handwritten prescription and cheques.
• Developing an AI-Assisted System for Drug Discovery and Development
Honors and Awards
• University Merit Scholarship (3 times) • University Dean’s List Scholarship (2 times) • University Stipend (2 times) • 1st Runner-Up of Undergraduate Project Idea Contest at 25th ICCIT 2022, Bangladesh. [Certificate]
• 57th in the public leaderboard of DL Sprint - BUET CSE Fest 2024, Bengali AI Math Olympiad a LLM based competition.
• Best Notebook Award at the DL Sprint - BUET CSE Fest 2022, Bengali ASR Competition.
Selected Projects
Coding Google’s PaliGemma VLM from Scratch Github
Implemented Google’s opensource PaliGemma Vision Language Model (VLM) from scratch. Implemented the SigLip
vision encoder, KV-cache and the GemmaLM with the multimodal projector. This project was inspired by Umair Jamil’s
paligemma open-source project.
Autonomous Inventory Robot Github
Developed an autonomous robotic system capable of executing real-time voice commands to identify, retrieve, and transport
specified objects. The system integrates Google Speech API based speech recognition, YOLOv5-s for real-time object
detection with robotic arm manipulation for precise object grasping with a Rasphberry-pi as the processor. Following
successful acquisition, the object is returned to a predefined base location using a Line Following Robot (LFR) navigation
system.
Deep-Learning-based-Breast-Cancer-Classification-Using-VGGIN Github
Trained the VGGIN model—a custom deep learning architecture that integrates VGG-19 with the Inception module, on
the BreakHis histopathology dataset. Achieved a test accuracy of 99.628%, demonstrating the model’s effectiveness in
classifying breast cancer subtypes from histopathological images.
Voice Controlled Wheelchair for Disabled Patients Github
Developed a full scale voice-controlled wheelchair for physically impaired people. GMM-based trained VoiceRecognitionV3
module takes voice commands from the patients in any language and in any accent and moves accordingly. In addition, the
wheelchair collision avoidance and emergency help feature.[Video].
Extracting Audio from Muted Video Github
The main goal of this project was to extract the audio signal from a muted video using signal processing methods in
MATLAB. The local and global pixel motions were captured using Complex Steerable Pyramid decomposition. This was
originally a project by Abe Davis, MIT [Visual Microphone].
Skills
ML, DL Framework Programming Simulations and Tools Frontend Backend PyTorch, TensorFlow, Transformers, vLLM, LangChain
Python, MATLAB, C/C++, Linux, Verilog, Assembly, LaTeX, Git
Raspberry Pi, Arduino, Proteus, Pspice, Quartus, Keil
FastAPI, Flusk, Gradio, Android Studio, Kotlin (Basic).
Standardized Test Scores
TOEFL 102, [Reading (26), Listening (26), Speaking (24), Writing (26)]
2/2